../../PathNotes/















Update 1.8.0  — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Update 1.8.0 










Feb 14




Written By 
Dusty Gustafsson










 




2024.02.14
LOVE IS IN THE ARENA 








Be Our Valentine!
 
Join the Valentine’s Day event to unlock a series of precious rewards! Turn in contracts to earn all 6 unlockables. Don’t play alone — Share the love and invite your Seoul-mates to join your party! 
The Steal the Spotlight event has now concluded. Thanks to everyone who participated and filled out the contracts! 
As promised, this update introduces some changes for “nukes and snukes.” Red canisters will now have the physics to make overloaded cans drop faster and take less predictable pathways. We’ve also remoWved the accidental double explosion and stacking damage from barrels with attachments.   
This patch features improvements to input latency on XBOX, new social notifications, and more! 
Check the details below:
 
Audio
Cloaking sounds will now differentiate between team members and enemy players 
Headshots will be indicated with their own sound 
Fixed an issue where certain sounds did not play when colliding with the environment  
Added a setting to control sounds when the game is not in focus (tabbed out) 
Fixed single-fire weapons not playing their firing sound at times
VFX
Various fixes to destruction in Seoul 
Added material-appropriate effects to destruction on all maps  
Gameplay/Balance
When a player is eliminated out-of-bounds in Bank It, their coins will spawn on the map  
Gravity and physics have been enabled on Red Canisters with attachments
Fixed an issue where multiple C4s would cause more damage than intended when exploding together, for example when attached to an object
Fixed a bug that caused jump pads to glitch when overlapped with an attached object
Fixed an issue that allowed players to cancel emotes by using quick-melee
Fixed an issue where objects could hover in the air after an attachment was destroyed 
Fixed an issue where a successful backstab with a dagger now correctly shows as a critical hit
Animation
Fixed an issue where held items were unintentionally visible 
Fixed various issues with defibs not animating correctly
Fixed an issue that caused the player mesh to break and faulty physics during revive 
Fix for the broom not disappearing after the “clean house” emote
Adjusted crouch animations to ensure they don’t make characters clip through thin walls 
Fixed an issue where left-hand gestures would make melee animations look faulty
The auto open door when sprinting animation will now keep your weapon in view 
The football grenade skin now spins correctly
Maps
Vegas Sandstorm: moved the floating zipline
Improved ambient lighting to address issues with seams between areas on all maps
UI/UX
Fixed an issue that caused the career progression page to lock when quickly switching pages via controller 
Corrected mislabeled career reward items 
Tournament overview screen will now show the correct contestant customization 
Fix for player to always be in the center of the team in the tournament overview screen
Fixed an issue where an item could not be immediately equipped after purchasing in the customization screen
Consoles
Reduced input latency on Xbox Series X|S
Security
General security fixes and improvements 
General 
Improved boot times on PC
Voice Chat 
Moved voice chat settings higher up in the audio settings tab
Players not using voice chat will now see an indication that team members are using it  
Added Push to Talk keybinding in the Voice Chat menu 
Fixed voice chat output volume so it is applied correctly
Fixed an issue with voice chat privacy settings so all options are respected




 












Dusty Gustafsson


















































Previous


Previous


Update 1.9.0










Next


Next


Update 1.7.0


















































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































