../../PathNotes/















Update 2.2.0 — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Update 2.2.0










Mar 27




Written By 
Dusty Gustafsson










 




2024.03.27
WELCOME TO THE EASTER EVENT: BUNNY BASH! 








Easter is here and it’s time to color some eggs and play 
BUNNY BASH
! 
During this event, you’ll turn in contracts to earn prizes while duking it out in this special version of 
POWER SHIFT
. The SYS$HORIZON map has been visited by the Easter Bunny, who has left plenty of decorations behind! You’ll need to work with a limited loadout during the event, so plan wisely and hop on the platform to smash your way to victory! 
We were planning on shuffling a few game modes to make room for 
Bunny Bash
, but seeing the outpouring of love for 
Bank It
 from the community, we’ve decided to keep it. Thank you for always being so vocal when it comes to your experience in the game! We may need to rearrange things in the future to make room for new experiences — but for now, keep grabbing those coins! 
We will be adding Cashout to the casual game modes, to replace unranked tournaments for now. You’ll be able to warm up for ranked in the single-round 3v3v3v3 mode instead. We’ve also added cashout to private matches in case you want to play with up to 12 friends! 
Finally, we’ll be switching all PC display names to Embark ID soon, to make social connections easier and to ensure better quality display names going forward. You’ll see a pop-up when you first open the game. You don’t need to do anything for this change, as you already have an Embark ID, but if you’d like to change your Embark ID Display name before the switch, you can do so by visiting the 
Embark Portal
. Don’t worry, there is no risk of losing any progress or friends on the social page due to this change and this does not affect console players at all. 
Let’s get to the nitty-gritty: 
Balancing
KS23
Increased fire rate from 55 RPM to 73 RPM
Decreased player damage from 120 to 100
Increased environmental damage from 600 to 700
Decreased pump-action animation delay from 0.2s to 0s
Increased pump-action animation duration from 0.6s to 0.7s
Increased damage fall-off start range from 15m to 18m
Decreased damage fall-off end range from 50m to 23m
Increased the damage fall-off multiplier at max range from 0.4 to 0.6, meaning it does more damage at range
Increased the projectile speed from 200m/s to 300m/s, meaning players need to lead targets less now
Decreased bullet dispersion when firing from the hip while crouching, standing, and running, making the weapon more accurate and reliable
FCAR
Adjusted recoil pattern to make the weapon slightly less easy to control
Decreased the damage fall-off multiplier at max range from 0.67 to 0.5, meaning it does less damage at long-range
FAMAS
Adjusted recoil pattern to make the weapon slightly easier to control
93R
Increased fire rate from 240 RPM to 260 RPM
Glitch Trap
Reduced the duration of glitch effect from 10s to 5s
Glitch Grenade
Reduce the duration of glitch effect from 10s to 5s
Changes & Bug Fixes
Daily Quests 
Daily quests will reward an increase in XP from 500 to 1000
VFX
Made the dematerializer highlight more visible
Fixed several instances of VFX not being shown in spectator view
UI
Removed the “being revived” bar from spectator when being revived with defibs
Updated the gamemode UI for Power Shift
Push to talk icon is now more responsive in HUD when activated
Corrected the clip-size info on KS-23
Added rank icon next to name tag in frontend and the intro sequence in Ranked Tournaments
Fixed an issue where the manage contracts button could become disabled
Tutorial videos on weapons, gadgets and specializations will now autoplay in menus
Fixed an issue on gamepad preventing players from scrolling the contracts list in end-of-round summary
Made rank icons in the scoreboard larger and stopped them from fading
Fixed an issue where the glitch effect was present during the team respawn camera if the last person to be eliminated was glitched
Fixed an issue where the cashbox icon could start out invisible
Maps
Las Vegas,
Fixed the blurry THE FINALS branding decal
Collision fix on the entrance of Argon casino
Practice Range
Updated the Season 1 leaderboard trophy
SYS$HORIZON
Fixed an issue where players were able to shoot through a wall at the entrance of the museum
Fix for flickering lights and reflection issues
Fixed an issue where players could hide inside geometry above the Work Space building
Seoul
Destruction balancing.
Fixed an issue where players could spawn separately from their team
Skyway Stadium
Tweaked spawns to reduce spawn camping from the Office building in Final Round. 
Gamemode
Cashout 
Available in the quickplay menu 
Available in private matches 
Power Shift 
Flash the platform lights between the team colors when both teams are on the platform 
Fixed an issue where statues could bounce around more than intended on the platform
Reduced the max angle that the platform can sway from 25 degrees to 15 to make it easier to interact with statues and gadgets 
Unranked Tournament
Removed for now 
Bunny Bash 
Available for a limited time 
Gameplay
Ziplines
Fixed an issue when jumping and interacting on the same frame led to instant detaching 
Made so that ziplines can’t be destroyed from the bottom end
Charge and Slam
Fixed cases where the slam would trigger instead of the charge when close to the ground
Dome Shield 
Fixed so that the outline color is correct 
Mesh Shield 
Improved the effect for indicating the shield is about to break
Glitch Grenades
Fix to stop them from exploding on friendly shields 
Anti-Gravity Cube 
Added outline and team color 
Gateways 
Fixed an issue that allowed gateways to deploy without enough clearance above them
Fixed an issue where there was no distance limit for the gateway gadget
Defib Revives 
Fixed an issue where abilities could be activated while being defib revived
Fixed an issue where players could be stunned and glitched while being defib revived
Canisters
Fixed an issue where canisters could be teleported when picked up
Spawning 
Increase invulnerability for players who just spawned (not revives)
Battle Pass 
Updated the total XP required to unlock each level to match our intended design. Early levels will now cost 6k instead of 9k XP. Later levels will cost 12k instead of 9k XP. Levels in the middle will remain the same. This means you might see battle pass levels with strange progress numbers, which self-adjusts after your first game played this update. It also means that some of you may unlock new levels at once after your first match in this update.
Animation
Fixed an issue where hands were not aligned to the gateway gadget in 1st person
Fixed an issue where throw animations wouldn't cancel properly when triggering ChargeN'Slam.
Fixed bullet animations for the 93R when reloading and inspecting
Improved the sprinting animation while holding the pad in 3rd person




 












Dusty Gustafsson


















































Previous


Previous


Update 2.3.0










Next


Next


Update 2.1.0


















































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































