../../PathNotes/















Update 2.4.0 — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Update 2.4.0










Apr 10




Written By 
Dusty Gustafsson










 




2024.04.10
NEW COMMUNITY EVENT 
It’s time again to work together as a community for a special prize! This time, you’ll be touring the globe on the Power Shift Platform! Not just once, but 10 times around the Earth! Push and pull that platform far enough and everyone will win a pink Historical Hi-Fi boombox to wear in the Arena! Fail to go the distance and the item becomes an unreachable relic! YOU CAN DO IT! 






















Earn the Community-Event-Exclusvie Historif Hi Fi Boombox in Pink! 












There will be a 
leaderboard tracking individual success
 (with distance added based on your collaborative team effort).  
Want an opportunity for extra prizes during the event?
 
Join the Official Discord
 for a chance to earn some swag! 
Here is this week’s Store update: 








Now for the notes!
 
This week we are making quality-of-life improvements, adding some new functionality to contracts, another mode to Private Matches, and fixing bugs. 
Players can now track up to 5 contracts inside the game, and you can find options in the settings menu to determine how much (or how little) information is displayed. You’ll also see improvements to the backfill settings on Power Shift, the removal of the glitching UI when eliminated, and a smarter Battlepass that always jumps to your current page.
Finally, we’ve added Solo Bank It to Private Matches and have fixed a number of contracts in the career circuit that were causing headaches to the majority of players. 
All this and more! Read the details below: 
Audio
Fixed an issue where turret sounds could linger if you quickly picked up the Guardian Turret after placing it down.
Gameplay
Fixed an issue where the deployment preview of placeable gadgets could be seen while being revived
Fixed an issue where the Mesh Shield could be deployed while emoting
Fixed an issue where the Dematerializer could interact with Goo
Fixed an issue where you could pick up objects during an interaction
Fixed animations sometimes retriggering when entering a Gateway
Fixed an issue where Guardian Turrets would target respawning Defibrillated players who are immune to damage
Added functionality allowing projectile weapons, such as different Grenades, the RPG, MG32L, and CL-40 to pass through friendly teammates
Dev note: This change is to address repeated issues where players would damage themselves if a teammate passed close by them right as they fired the weapon 
Fixed an issue where players using a Riot Shield would not trigger mines
Fixed an issue where the throwing arc preview would still appear after a throw had been canceled
Fixed an issue where some objects, such as Barricades, could travel upwards too quickly when affected by the Anti-Gravity Cube
Modes
Power Shift
Improved rules for backfilling on Power Shift mode. Players should no longer be backfilled into matches if the platform is within 20% of its final destination
Solo Bank It 
Added to Private Matches 
Practice Range 
Fixed an issue where mines would not be triggered by bots
Maps
 
Seoul: 
Fixed overlapping assets
Las Vegas:
Improved far shadow distance in lighting 
Fix for fog bleeding through walls on low and medium-quality settings
Monaco: 
Fix for players getting stuck on balconies in certain situations
Adjusted the glass on the construction site crane so you can throw grenades through them
UI/UX
Fixed incorrect tutorial video for the Goo grenade
First-person animations now loop when being previewed
Added support for zooming in on character items in the Battlepass and Store
Added tracking ability for up to 5 contracts 
Fixed the request respawn button not being responsive
Tweaked squad intro cameras in Power Shift
Fixed an issue where first-person animations sometimes would not get equipped
Fixed the UI shaking after being eliminated
Fix for some players showing up as diamond league rank in the scoreboard when rank could not be fetched in time
UI Polish for the Scoreboard
Set the current Battlepass page to be shown first 
Animation
Fixed an issue where melee swings would not play after a charge and slam
General
 
Frame rate limit setting will now default to 60 on laptops for new installs
Dev Note: This will help to prevent thermal issues causing heavy stuttering on some laptops. The frame rate limiter can be disabled or adjusted in the video settings menu.
Upgraded FSR2 to version 2.2.1 to fix a memory leak
Fixed an issue where fog would bleed through walls on lower-quality settings
Contracts
Replaced "Win 1 Tournament" with "Deal 750 Fire Damage to Opponents" in Circuit 1, Stage 3
Reduced "Deal 5000 damage with grenades" to 2500 in Circuit 1, Stage 1 
Reduced "Get 11 kills in one round" to 6 in Circuit 1, Stage 4
Security Updates
Fixed an issue that kicked players from the game and displayed error code TFAV1012
Gradual rollout of Secureboot enforcement for Win 11 to prevent cheats from running  
Removed identified game executable vulnerabilities
Enhanced rules for suspensions, including updated limitations for leaderboard presence 
Updates and improvements




 












Dusty Gustafsson


















































Previous


Previous


Update 2.5.0










Next


Next


Update 2.3.0


















































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































