../../PathNotes/















Release Patch Notes 1.2.0 — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Release Patch Notes 1.2.0










Feb 2




Written By 
Dusty Gustafsson










 




2023.12.08
THE ARENA IS OPEN! Welcome to Season 1 of THE FINALS.








After years of development, multiple community Alpha and Beta tests, and many months of “soon,” we are so excited to launch THE FINALS! We could not have done it without all the time, energy, feedback, and love heaped onto us by our community of players. As we welcome you to live service, you will see below that we have been very very busy.
But we’re not done. Live service games take continuous work, a lot of listening, iteration, patching, fixing, and balancing. Rest assured, we’re up for the challenge and ready to support this game and its players (that includes us!) through thick and thin. Thank you for being on this journey with us – it means the world!
Suit up, contestants. Cameras are rolling. The arena is open.
New Content
Content Updates
New ways to express yourself in the arena! 
Such as:
Reload and Inspect animations
Emoticons
Gestures
Pets (!!!)
Sounds
Watches
More? Yes, more!
The 
Store
 is open and you’ll have access to an ever-changing 
selection of content 
to make your contestants p
o
p in the arena.
The Season 1 BattlePass
 contains 12 pages of unlockable rewards.
That amounts to 
96 exclusive
 
rewards
29 rewards can be earned for free!
Unlock the whole BattlePass to receive a total of 
1575 Multibucks!
Play and progress
, master your loadout with:
6 Mastery 
L
evels per weapon
6 Mastery Levels per gadget
5 levels per ability
New Features
New Map
 Las Vegas
Test your luck and reach for the stars in the glitz, glam, and tight-knit gameplay of this glittering arena
New Map variants:
Don’t get lost in stingi
ng
 sands! Seek shelter and glory in this Las Vegas map variant: 
Sandstorm.
Tripwires & turrets:
 The environment can work for or against you. Traverse Vegas but watch your step, around every corner could be a trap.
New event:
 Alien invasion
You’ll have to see this one to believe it. It’s outta this world!
Gameplay Changes & balance
Movement & Animation
Movement
Made multiple updates to vaulting responsiveness and general smoothness when traversing
Updated various first-person animations to better sync with footsteps
Improvements to syncing and stability when players are on moving surfaces such as elevators, sky-lifts, cranes, and moving platforms
Improved speed-matching and added in-air animations when coining other contestants
General polish updates to third-person locomotion
Combat Animations
Stabilized the camera for aim down sight reloads and bolt actions, for easier tracking of targets
Updated jumping and zipline animations when aiming down sights
Added third-person reaction animations for Flashbangs, 
G
as, and Fire.
Reworked the animations for the Charge’N’Slam specialization
Controller
General
Added sensitivity scaling based on zoom FOV
Aim Assistance
Added better support and various improvements for sensitivity dampening on targets
Updated default aim down sights sensitivity reduction
Reduced zoom snapping active duration
Controller Vibration
Settings added
Controller Settings
Added setting to allow players to further customize their controller experience
Added separate dead zones for the different analog sticks
Maps
All
Finally, the wrecking ball is back! Check the cranes.
Monaco
Improved readability of map border
Skyway Stadium
Added ‘Evenin
g
’ environment condition
Specializations
Charge’N’Slam
Updated damage of the ground slam so that it will break floors in buildings more consistently
Cloaking Device
Rebalanced fade-in/out durations to make it harder to vanish mid-combat
Added fade-in/out visual effect
Grapple Hook
Fixed a bug where players could become stuck when grappling during a vault
Recon Senses
Reduced the total fuel, shortening the max duration
Fixed an issue where Recon Senses would trigger on 
e
nemy statues
Weapons
General
Updated bullet dispersion system on all weapons when aiming down sights
Fixed various issues where weapons could fire infinitely or not at all
Fixed an issue where Gadgets could become stuck in an infinite cooldown
Added a new hitmarker to crosshairs for damage over time effects
AKM
Updated recoil pattern, making it slightly less easy to control
FCAR
Updated recoil pattern, making it slightly easier to control
Flamethrower
Fixed a bug where the Flamethrower could be fired without consuming ammo
Max range reduced by 60 cm
Fire rate reduced to 160 RPM from 180 RPM
Adjusted Flamethrower impact effects to make them less blinding for the target player
Reduced damage to 28 from 31
Lewis Gun
Updated recoil pattern, making it slightly easier to control
LH1
Increased bullet dispersion when firing from the hip
Updated recoil pattern, making the weapon easier to control
Fire rate reduced to 300 RPM from 400 RPM
Increased LH1 damage from 41 to 45
M60
Updated recoil pattern, making it slightly less easy to control
Riot Shield
Fixed an issue where the Riot Shield could block bullets while the player was emoting
Throwing Knives
Introduced Throwing Knives to the Light arch
e
type
V9S
Magazine size reduced to 20 from 24
Updated recoil pattern, making the weapon less easy to control
Increased damage fall-off to make the weapon less effective at long-range
Gadgets
General
Fixed an issue where Gadgets could become stuck in an infinite cooldown
C4
Increased health from 5 to 25
Defibrillators
Added ability for defibrillators to damage enemy players. They will do 50 damage and will enter cooldown if they land a successful hit
Gas Mine
Added trigger audio effect
Glitch Grenade
Fuse time increased from 1.1s to 1.8s, giving it more range
Night Vision
Removed Night Vision from the game, to be reworked in a future update
Sonar Grenade
Radius reduced from 17.5m to 10m
Updated the crosshair hit marker that appears when the Sonar Grenade detects targets
Stun Gun
Removed sensitivity reduction from stunned players
Added glitch effect to stunned players, rendering their Specialization and Gadgets unusable for a short time
Tactical Breach
Increased health from 5 to 25
Vanishing Bomb
Introduced Vanishing Bomb gadget to the Light archetype
Zipline
Ad
d
ed line break effect to Ziplines




 












Dusty Gustafsson


















































Previous


Previous


Hotfix 1.2.2 








































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































