../../PathNotes/















Update 4.0.0  — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Update 4.0.0 










Sep 26




Written By 
Dusty Gustafsson










 




2024.09.26
IT’S SHOWTIME! 
Welcome to Season 4, Contestants! 
Season 4 brings exciting new content and features to THE FINALS! From the sleek, urban 
Fortune Stadium
 map sponsored by HOLTOW, ENGIMO, and ISEUL-T, to three powerful new weapons, there's plenty to dive into.
We’ve also added 
sponsor contracts
, allowing players to sign up with one of our three sponsors for unique rewards, new 
World Tour ranks
, and improved 
Ranked Cashout Tournaments
. Plus, new customization options, loadout slots, and revamped leaderboards ensure a more competitive and personalized experience.
Read about all the changes below, and gear up for the most spectacular season of the gameshow yet!








New Map: Fortune Stadium




























Welcome to Fortune Stadium! Our sponsors, HOLTOW, ENGIMO, and ISEUL-T, are bringing you this new map in our arena! Traverse the streamlined urban environment which has sectors dedicated to each brand and some highly vertical spaces. 
Three New Weapons




























.50 Akimbo
 


HEAVY
These bad boys bring extra firepower and precision to the arena! 
































Pike-556 


MEDIUM 
Extend the effective range of the Medium build with this designated marksman rifle!
































M26 Matter 


LIGHT
Swiftly master this new pump-action shotgun! 












New Feature: Sponsors




























This season, our proud sponsors are looking to sign with contestants and support their seasonal journey with swag, money, and fanfare! Players now have the option to sign with either HOLTOW, ENGIMO or ISEUL-T as their sponsor for the duration of Season 4.
Earn Fans by completing Contracts and performing well in the arena. The more Fans you earn, the more rewards your sponsor will offer you! Can you make it all the way and earn everything from your sponsor of choice? Choose wisely though, you only get to sign once! 
New Feature: Alternate Sights & Scopes
We’ve added a selection of alternate sights and scopes to some of the existing weapons, allowing you to switch between traditional sights or alternatives like Red Dots or Scopes. These alternative sights are unlocked using VRs via the weapon customization screen.
New World Tour Ranks
For Season 4 we’ve introduced Platinum and Diamond ranks to World Tour! We’ve also heard your feedback on the difficulty of earning Emerald rank, so in Season 4 Emerald will now be unlocked and available to earn from the beginning of the season and will be earned with Win Points, not tournament wins. Expect lots of fun stops along the way as you climb your way to Emerald Tier 1! 
New Ranked mode
Ranked Tournaments are back! This Season, you’ll be competing in Cashout with an 8-team, 24-player tournament format. As part of improving the ranked experience, we’re also now seeding tournaments based on the strengths of each team, and your change in Ranked Score will be dependent on where you finish in the tournament as a whole compared to your initial seeding. We believe this will give a clearer and much more authentic tournament experience.  
Cashout Rule Variants for Ranked and World Tour
To give the best experience in our competitive Ranked Tournaments and our more casual-friendly World Tour Tournaments we’ve introduced slightly different variants of the Cashout rule set in each mode. 
In Ranked Tournaments, the 10% team wipe penalties are active, gameshow events such as ‘Low Gravity,’ for example, are disabled to reduce randomness, and loadout changes are only permitted between rounds of the tournament.
In the World Tour, team wipe penalties are disabled, game show events are still enabled, and players will be able to swap items from their Reserve into their Loadout between team wipes and between rounds. While Ranked Cashout is set in stone, there will be opportunities to change up the World Tour experience in various ways throughout the season!  
Improved Player Cards
It’s time to get personal on the Player Cards! For Season 4, we’ve added a new layout, collectible and adjustable badges, borders, and player titles. There are new backgrounds available to collect as well, and we’ve improved the lighting on your character to help showcase your style! 
Updated Circuits
Circuits now run in parallel to the World Tour stops and share the same Sponsors, allowing you another way to earn rewards from the show’s benefactors. We’ve also removed the requirement to complete earlier Contracts before you can access later Circuits, hopefully making the experience a little more streamlined.
Two Extra Loadout Slots
Due to popular demand, we’ve added two additional Loadout slots, bringing the total number of slots from six to eight. 
New Battle Pass
This season’s Battle Pass has 106 levels of rewards to unlock. It heavily features items from popular sponsor OSPUZE and rewards from new sponsor IVADA.
New Career Levels
We’ve added 10 new levels, complete with rewards, to the Career Level system. These rewards come courtesy of one of the show’s sponsors, ENO+RINO.
Leaderboard Improvements
We’d made some big improvements to leaderboards for Season 4. Players can now filter leaderboards by region, and the World Tour leaderboard also includes filters for the different tour stops. 
We’ve introduced leaderboards for Quick Cash, Terminal Attack, Bank It, and Power Shift, and a board tracking the performance of each Sponsor. 
New Static Crosshair Setting
THE FINALS’ default crosshair is a dynamic crosshair that will often move as your character animates, for example when running and jumping. We know that some of you prefer a crosshair that stays locked to the center of the screen. We’ve added a new setting to our crosshair customization to turn “in-world crosshair” off, which will create a true static crosshair that stays in the center at all times. 
New Feature: Facial Hair Customization
You’ll now have the option to select from a variety of beards and mustaches to give your competitor a more sophisticated look! Check it out in the style tab! 
New Feature: First Time Player Experience 
In order to welcome new players into the game with more confidence, we’ve made some significant changes to the onboarding experience! These changes include intro videos for each build type, a more advanced Cashout tutorial that shows off destruction, clearer and faster menu systems, and more! 
We’re also debuting a brand new set of OSPUZE-branded starting outfits because, let’s be honest, we’d all grown tired of the rookie ‘pajamas!’ Don’t worry veterans, you’ll get them, too!  
In addition, we’ve added a clear set of goals and unlock activities to the main menu in order to guide new players through their first five rounds. We hope this helps ease new players into the game and introduces them to all the fun there is to be had.
Season 3 Rewards Coming Soon 
Normally, all ranked rewards are delivered at the start of the next season! This season, however, we will delay the delivery in order to do a final sweep of our leaderboards and ensure that all players have earned their rewards fair and square. 
In Season 3, we added new competitive modes and rewards to THE FINALS by introducing Ruby rank in Ranked Terminal Attack and Emerald in World Tour.
We know all of you want to show off your prowess from Season 3 as soon as possible, but we want to be sure that these rewards are handed out correctly, to those who earned them through fair play, these rewards will be handed out in Update 4.2!
DLCs 
At the launch of Season 4, we’ll have three new DLC available at three different price points for you to browse through and check out! Do note that, just like last season, the Starter Pack returns as a DLC for this season as well.
Let’s get into the details!
With a new map, expanded arsenal, sponsor mechanics, and tons of improvements across ranks, leaderboards, and customization, this season is shaping up to be the best version of THE FINALS yet. Now, let’s dive into the full details and numbers behind these changes to help you prepare for The Arena!
Balance Changes
Archetypes
Heavy 
Dev Note: We wanted to leave a quick dev note on the state of the Heavy archetype, as we know there have been some frustrations that the Heavy is ‘overly nerfed’ compared to the Light archetype. While the Light (most played) does remain much more played than the Heavy (least played) as of the end of Season 3, across all skill tiers and modes we see that the Heavy is by far the most winning of our three archetypes, with Light the most losing. Our intent with much of the balancing is to bring all of the archetypes' win rates more closely in line, while also equalizing their pick rates. This ultimately means that, when it comes to the Heavy, we need to work through a process of both making it more balanced in terms of power and making it more fun to play. This will be an ongoing process but is the underlying thought process behind some of the changes made to start Season 4 when it comes to balance and usability of items.  
 
Gadgets 
Anti-Gravity Cube
Increased radius from 6m to 7m
Increased height from 11m to 12m
Breach Charge
Increased ammo from 2 to 3
Increased cooldown from 26s to 30s
Dev Note: We felt the Breach Charge had become under-used in the current meta and we believe this change will increase its value versus the Thermal Bore
Data Reshaper 
Increased range from 15m to 21m
Increased number of charges from 2 to 3
Explosive Mine
Decreased max damage from 140 to 120
Decreased cooldown from 30s to 15s
Decreased ammo count from 2 to 1 (max mines deployed remains at 2)
Dev Note: Our intent for the Explosive Mines has always been to have them be a defensive gadget that covers choke points to help protect an objective, and where placement is a skill. Being able to immediately place two of them back-to-back led to a lot of mine stacking, often right on the objective, and allowed defenses to be set up too quickly. We hope that adding 15s between each deployment and less damage will lead to less stacking and encourage teams to get to the objective location sooner in order to be able to fully set up defenses before combat commences.
Flashbang
Increased the max duration of the Blind status effect from 4s to 4.5s
Increased the max duration of the max intensity of the Blind status effect from 1.8s to 3.5s
Increase the intensity of flashes that explode close to the enemy’s position
Increased the view angle of flashes, causing more intense flashes when the flash goes off by someone’s side or slightly behind them
Flashbangs now only show Hit Indicators on the crosshair if they reach a minimum amount of intensity on a hostile target
Decreased the intensity and duration of the Blind status effect  on teammates
Improved the leniency of hit detection of the Flashbang when targeting players, so that it is less likely to be blocked by small objects
Dev Note: We found the Flashbang to have been underutilized and have added some quality of life fixes that will hopefully make them more reliable and effective.
Glitch Trap
Disabled crosshair hit markers when the Glitch Trap attaches to an enemy, so that it can no longer be used to detect players
Decreased ammo from 2 to 1
Decreased cooldown from 30s to 20s
Jump Pad
Added a small amount of variance to the Jump Pad so that objects cannot bounce on them indefinitely
Proximity Sensor
Increased radius from 10m to 11m
RPG-7
Decreased damage from 140 to 100
Increased reload time from 0.9s to 2.15s
Decreased projectile dispersion when aiming down sights from 0.3x to 0.25x
Dev Note: We never really intended the RPG to be an ‘opener’ in combat, even if it is an item that is more accessible to new players, the intent was always that this was for destruction first and foremost. We believe this change makes it still usable as an opener, but a much less valuable one, shifting its focus back to destruction and breaching. 
Tracking Dart
Increased magazine size from 2 to 4
Decreased ammunition regeneration rate from 13s to 12s
Decreased tracking duration from 15s to 10s
Zipline
Decreased the height of Ziplines slightly, so that they will better fit through doors
Liftables
Propane Gas Canister
Decreased direct physical impact damage from 50 to 25
Modes
Cashout Modes
Introduced new re-spawn placement logic for teams that are wiped, with the goal of reducing the number of ‘third-party’ fights
Ranked Tournaments (Cashout)
Added Ranked Tournaments
Disabled game show events in Ranked Tournaments
Dev Note: To make Ranked Tournaments a more competitive friendly environment, with less randomness involved, we’ve decided to disable all game show events. We believe this will make matches slightly more consistent, less random, and easier to strategize around.
Increased the cash awarded per Cashout in the final round from $10,000 to $25,000
Increased the cash required to win the final round from $20,000 to $50,000
 
Terminal Attack
Terminal Attack now uses a best-of-nine-rounds (first to five) format, with a half-time break where level destruction is reset
Terminal Attack (Ranked)
Removed Ranked Terminal Attack and replaced it with Ranked Tournaments
World Tour (Cashout)
Disabled team wipe penalties in World Tour
Dev Note: World Tour is intended to be a more casual tournament experience than our Ranked Tournaments. Our 
research in Season 3
 showed that removing team wipe penalties caused less player frustration and led to closer matches.
Enabled the ability for players to swap items between their Loadout and Reserve
 
between team wipes in World Tour
Dev Note: This is another change aimed at making World Tour more friendly for the casual player, by allowing them to swap items between lives. Ranked Tournaments will continue to only allow swapping between rounds, as we believe counter-picking rival teams and adjusting to maps and map variants should be a skill in competitive play.
Increased the cash awarded per Cashout in the final round from $10,000 to $25,000
Increased the cash required to win the final round from $20,000 to $50,000
Added Diamond and Platinum ranks to World Tour, between the Gold and Emerald ranks.
Emerald rank is now unlocked and available to progress towards from the start of the season 
Emerald rank is now earned by collecting Win Points, rather than tournament wins
Updated the required Win Point totals for all World Tour ranked tiers, due to the change in ranks and how they are earned
 
Specializations
Dematerializer
Improved targeting to reduce the amount of times the dematerializer fails to make a passageway through objects.
Goo Gun
Fire mode changed from semi-automatic to fully automatic
Healing Beam
Decreased healing rate from 50 health per second to 40 health per second
Mesh Shield
Mesh Shield will now enter cooldown either when destroyed or lowered
Dev Note: The Mesh Shield was intended as a Specialization used to shield teammates or to represent the Heavy archetype’s toughness and staying power. We felt the juggling of the shield, constantly raising and lowering it to fire weapons, was hard for some players to understand and very frustrating to play against. We understand this is a significant change and we’ll obviously monitor its impact closely  
Decreased Mesh Shield cooldown from 15s to 12s. The cooldown is only 8s if the Shield is undamaged when deactivated
Weapons 
93R
Smoothed the vertical recoil to avoid having sharp jumps in intensity, which could previously cause an inconsistent feel
Updated firing animation when aiming down sights to give greater visibility 
Increased fire rate from 210 RPM to 220 RPM
Decreased bullet dispersion when firing ‘from the hip’ when crouching, crouch moving, standing still, running, and in ‘uncontrolled’ states such as falling or sliding
Decreased the rate at which bullet dispersion builds up over time when firing for a sustained period
Increased the bullet dispersion recovery speed from 0.45 to 0.65
Dev Note: The 93R has been a difficult weapon for us to balance due to it being a burst fire weapon. Burst fire weapons give players the expectation that all the shots in a burst should be able to hit when aimed well, but this also means potentially doing three bullets worth of damage per ‘shot’ fired, making the weapon also high damage when the full burst hits. Getting this right whilst also differentiating the weapon from the FAMAS has been difficult. We’ve been reluctant to make the 93R a two ‘shot’ weapon versus Lights, because all testing of this scenario has made the weapon game-breaking, but at 72 damage a burst (i.e. three shots, nine bullets to kill a Light) the weapon has repeatedly underperformed, so it constantly sits on this knife's edge of being too good or very bad. In this update, we’ve focused on making the weapon much more effective when fired ‘from the hip,’ rather than when aiming down sights. We feel this combination of damage and mobility puts the weapon in a better place, but we’d love to get your feedback on it.
AKM
Decreased magazine size from 36 to 32
CL-40
Increased max damage from 93 to 117
Dev Note: This change sounds significant, but keeps the weapon in a place where it still takes two shots to kill a Light and three shots to kill a Medium. The change is mostly aimed at making a Heavy three shots to kill instead of four, as we felt it was unfair to the CL-40 to have to land all four of its available four shots (i.e. 100% accuracy) to kill a Heavy without reloading
Decreased fire rate from 275 RPm to 210 RPM
Dev Note: A small adjustment to offset the significant damage buff a little.
Increased the max damage radius from 9cm to 30cm
Dagger
The Dagger’s backstab secondary attack can now be held, only triggering when the button is released, rather than automatically. During this stance, the player moves at the normal run speed and cannot sprint
Lewis Gun
Smoothed the recoil pattern of the Lewis Gun, reducing the amount of horizontal recoil at some points. The recoil pattern overall remains the same but should be considerably easier to control
LH1
Decreased the damage fall-off start range from 80m to 50m
Decreased the damage fall-off end range from 100m to 55m
Dev Note: With the addition of alternative scopes/sights, we felt the LH1 was starting to stray well into the territory of the SR-84. This change reduces that to some extent.
M60
Increased fire rate from 560 RPM to 580 RPM
Smoothed the recoil pattern of the M60, reducing the amount of horizontal recoil at some points. The recoil pattern overall remains the same but should be considerably easier to control
MGL32
Decreased reload time from 3.1s to 2.8s
Dev Note: The MGL32 is a weapon we’d very much like to re-work at some point, but that will take a more considerable effort. For now, this is a simple and small quality of life adjustment that should make the weapon a little more viable.
Recurve Bow
Increased damage at minimum draw from 55 to 60
Decreased damage ramp-up start time from 0.2s to 0.15s
Decreased the time taken to reach maximum draw from 0.585s to 0.49s
Riot Shield
Increased damage from 84 to 90
SH1900 Shotgun
Decreased reload time from 2.5s to 2.125s
Spear
Increased run speed modifier during secondary spin attack from 65% to 75%
SR-84 Sniper
Updated the SR-84 to now only fire hit-scan rounds up to 40m range. After this point, the shot becomes a projectile with bullet drop from gravity and drag
Dev Note: While the SR-84 is by no means overpowered or overly successful in many of our modes, it has become somewhat oppressive at very long ranges in modes like Terminal Attack and Power Shift, causing frustration for a lot of players. We feel this change limits much of the very long-range harassment that players found frustrating while maintaining the skill level and responsiveness in medium-to-long-range encounters.
Sword
Updated attack sweeps to be more centered on the crosshair, making the weapon more accurate
Increased the range of the secondary lunge from approximately 5m to approximately 6m
Secondary lunge attack now maintains its top speed for slightly longer
Throwing Knives
The Throwing Knives secondary attack can now be held, only triggering when the button is released, rather than automatically. During this stance, the player moves at the normal run speed and cannot sprint
XP-54
Increase the magnification of the XP-54’s sight slightly, as part of the addition of alternate sights/scopes
Decreased damage from 18 to 16
Content and Bug Fixes 
Animation 
Fixed an issue where players could spawn into a round without the spawn-in animations or FX
Fixed an issue where pairing a Quick Melee action with other actions would make the animations look faulty
Polished the Riot Shield first-person animation where you would perform a phantom strike if you quickly zoomed after a strike
Removed camera animations when previewing first-person animations in the front end since it felt distracting
Fixed an issue where melee weapon animations could sometimes get stuck in the ‘charging’ pose in third-person 
Audio 
Fixed an issue where the Santa Hat extra VO lines would not play
Career Rank 
Added 10 new levels with rewards to the Career Rank
Fixed an issue where stages or circuits that gave XP might not apply them to both the Battle Pass and Career Rank
Characters
Fixed an issue where various hair types could clip with the bucket hat
Gadgets 
General
Fixed an issue where deployable gadgets could remain floating in mid-air
Data Reshaper
Fixed an issue where items transmuted by the Data Reshaper would not count as destroyed for certain Contracts
Flashbang
Improved the leniency of hit traces from the Flashbang to target players, so that they are less likely to be blocked by small objects 
Vanishing Bomb
Improved the hit detection of the Vanishing Bomb on the player that threw it
Ziplines
Fixed an issue where Ziplines could break instantly upon being placed
Game Modes 
Cashout Modes
Fixed an issue where Vaults opened out of bounds, causing the newly spawned Cashbox to be indefinitely stuck out of bounds.
Added notification messages to the HUD that show Cashout Started, Cashout Stolen and Vault Opened to the entire team when a teammate completes said action
Fixed an issue where the Cashout overtime timer could be broken, making sure a cashout being completed during overtime won't spawn new Vaults
Cashout Tutorial
Introduced a new version of the Cashout tutorial, for a smoother and more fun experience
Fixed various smaller issues with the tutorial flow and components
Fixed an issue where the correct loadout was not alway loaded in the tutorial
Liftables
Fixed an issue that could cause thrown items to stutter
Maps 
Seoul
Fixed an issue where the audience jumbotron could glow
Kyoto
Added autumn themed version of Kyoto
Matchmaking
Players will now connect to levels faster, without waiting for other players who have not yet loaded. As a result, players will reach the lobby much faster and will see connecting players represented as a hologram
Movement 
Fixed issue where players could lock their cameras to a fixed direction if they died while climbing a ladder
Performance and Optimization
Fixed issue where VOIP would not work as expected if the push-to-talk key was pressed when going back to the main menu
Fixed a rare issue where during the tournament intro/outro sequence, characters could be invisible
Reduced the number of hitches that could occur when selecting items in the customization and drafting screens
Specializations 
Goo Gun
Goo will now correctly stick to a Guardian Turret’s base, rather than the barrel, preventing chains of goo from rotating through walls
Guardian Turret
Bullets can now be blocked by the player who owns the turret, just like they can be by friendly players
UI
Added two additional Contestant slots, increasing the maximum from 6 to 8
Added a setting that allows players to disable the in-world crosshair. When set to ‘off’, the crosshair will always be in the center of your screen and static. Otherwise, it will move with camera movement.
Fixed an issue where the lobby screen only showed Defibrillators on all icons when first entering the screen
Fixed an issue where items from previous World Tours could appear in the store
Fixed an issue where the loading screen was occasionally briefly missing
Fixed a bug where "Canceling Matchmaking" was sometimes incorrectly shown in the matchmaking widget.
Fixed an issue where the Play or Reconnect buttons would briefly appear when connecting to a match
Fixed background blurring for Watches in store/battle pass
Weapons
General
Fixed an issue where the character could end up aiming downwards after controlling recoil on high frame rates
Throwing Knives 
Fixed an issue where Throwing Knives and arrows could be floating in front of players using the Riot Shield
Riot Shield
The Riot Shield will now block the Winch Claw and prevent the player from being grabbed
Sword
Fixed an issue where the Sword’s lunge animation was not played in third person




 












Dusty Gustafsson


















































Previous


Previous


Update 4.1.0










Next


Next


Improving Cashout Mode in Season 3


















































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































