../../PathNotes/















Update 2.1.0 — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Update 2.1.0










Mar 20




Written By 
Dusty Gustafsson










 




2024.03.20
Welcome to the first update of Season 2!
 








This update brings a new development to private matches! In the first of many improvements, we have added map selection to the feature so you can play in the arena of your choice. 
We’re excited to see how many of you love Power Shift! Very soon, we’ll be adding new maps to this mode so you can ride the platform to its destination in a whole new setting! This and more, coming in Season 2 – so stay tuned! 
BUG FIXES & ADDITIONS 
Private matches
Players can now select the map when starting a private match
Players will no longer be stuck trying to join the game server after leaving a private lobby
Fixed an issue where party members with different crossplay settings could be unable to leave private match lobbies
Fixed a bug where players could bypass the "Crossplay ON" requirement for private matches, which resulted in a softlock
Console
Crash fix for audio-related crash
Power Shift 
Monaco:
Fixed jump pads clipping the streets on low/medium/high settings 
Added a short zip line to the closed alleyway next to the cathedral to make traversal smoother 
Polished placement and orientation of spawn points   
Skyway Stadium:
Added jump pad outside the construction spawn area
Tweaked spawns to sit less close to edges
General:
Fixed objective count score in the summary screen
Maps 
Performance and polish on SYS$HORIZON
Adjusted collision on ceiling blocker to prevent players from getting stuck above the library when using the gateway gadget in SYS$HORIZON
Moved a spawn location in the corner of Monaco near the Hotels that was creating imbalanced scenarios in some game modes
Fixed incorrect destruction effect on trees in SYS$HORIZON
Fixed missing destruction effects on concrete fences in Seoul
Fixed missing destruction effects in multiple assets in the tutorial 
Weapons & Gadgets 
Fixed bug with inconsistent damage when multiple explosives were triggered at the same time by C4s and breaching charges as opposed to multiplied melee damage
Fixed an issue that made recoil on burst weapons not behave as intended 
Fixed Gateway ammo not being properly refunded when being thrown into an APS
Fixed hovering objects after transmutation
Blocked transmutation on friendly carriables
Improved zipline behavior to better match the intended exit point and direction of the player 
Improved the dematerializer ability to dematerialize/rematerialized objects when multiple objects are close to each other 
Removed the ability to equip the mesh shield during defib revive
Art
Updated the shoulder-length hairstyles to avoid clipping
Fixed oversized ÖRF Sweater to prevent the sleeves from blocking ADS
UI/UX
Social syncs will not be excluded if a user is already logged in
Fixed a bug that would cause carriable objects to weigh more if they had an active Ping marker attached to them
Fixed incorrect text on certain contracts 
Fixed overflowing text in item tutorial videos 
Audio 
Fixed seek-to-start time not working
Corrected the audio for the Season vignette video
BALANCE 
Weapons
SA1216
Decreased fire rate from 230RPM to 200RPM
Decreased damage per pellet from 7 to 6
Gadgets
 
Glitch Grenades 
Changed glitch grenades to trigger on impact when they hit mesh shields and dome shields — on other surfaces, they will still bounce 
Glitch Traps 
Changed glitch traps to trigger on impact when they hit mesh shields and dome shields
 
SECURITY
Improved prevention and detection
Added ban progression with a 3-strike system




 












Dusty Gustafsson


















































Previous


Previous


Update 2.2.0










Next


Next


Update 2.0.0 | Season 2


















































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































