../../PathNotes/















Update 4.2.0 — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Update 4.2.0










Oct 10




Written By 
Oscar Lundberg










 




2024.09.26
Welcome to Update 4.2!
This update comes jam-packed with changes, from a brand new event in the World Tour, ranked rewards, a brand new community event and balance changes!
First, let’s check out this week’s store update:








World Tour Event - Primetime Buff
Let’s jump into this week’s changes and start it off with a brand new event in the World Tour; “Primetime Buff”! Primetime Buff triggers when you or a teammate inserts a cash box into a cashout station, and it affects your whole team! When affected by Primetime Buff, you and your teammates receive +100 health over your typical max health (e.g. a Light player would go from a max of 150 to 250 health). Some notes about Primetime Buff;
If taking damage, the extra health does not replenish.
When the cashout is finished, the buff will disappear.
The buff cannot be stacked, but it can be replenished if your team deposits another cash box.
The buff does not apply to teammates that are eliminated when the cash box is inserted.
ENGIMO are truly treating us well on their last stop of the World Tour, which includes the following maps;
Fortune Stadium
Monaco
Kyoto
SYS$HORIZON
Season 3 Ranked Rewards
We said we'd deliver the post-Season 3 rewards with update 4.2, and we still intend to do that. However, given how important it is that this is handled correctly, we still want to do further testing before handing them out.
We are actively working on dotting the last i’s and crossing the final t’s before we can push the button to hand out the rewards, and our ambition is that this will still happen during update 4.2.
Make sure to stay tuned on our Discord server 
https://www.discord.gg/thefinals
 and on our website for more information about when the rewards are paid out.
Community Event!
Lastly we’re introducing the first Community Event of Season 4!
For this event we’re challenging all of you to eliminate 10.000.000 (TEN MILLION!) enemy contestants using the brand new weapons introduced in Season 4, before the time runs out. If you succeed, you’ll all be rewarded with the ENGIMO community-compliant .50 Akimbo’s! We’ll be monitoring your progress closely, best of luck contestants!
Now, let’s get into the Balance Changes and Fixes of this update:
Balance Changes
Gadgets 
Data Reshaper
Added Glitch Barrels to the rotation of reshaped items the Data Reshaper can create
Smoke Grenade 
Increased ‘smoke entity duration’ from 15s to 17.5s. This means enemy health bars and outlines will not show through the smoke until the effect properly begins to disappear
Game Modes
Ranked Tournaments
Updated the spawn point selection logic in the final round of the tournament, for teams who get wiped. This should reduce the number of long-distance spawns that occur
Increased the variety of Cashout spawn locations when spawning the next objectives
World Tour
Updated the spawn point selection logic in the final round of the tournament, for teams who get wiped. This should reduce the number of long-distance spawns that occur
Increased the variety of Cashout spawn locations when spawning the next objectives
Specializations
Mesh Shield
Decreased Mesh Shield cooldown from 12s to 8s if the shield is damaged when closed
Decreased Mesh Shield cooldown from 8s to 4s if the shield is undamaged when closed
Dev Note: We’re still keen to avoid Mesh Shield ‘juggling’ in combat as that is not an intended playstyle for this Specialization, but we feel our changes made in 4.0 have been overly severe. These changes hopefully make the Mesh Shield more usable in 4.2
Weapons 
CL-40
Decreased damage from 117 to 100
Increased ammo from 4 to 5
Increased self-damage multiplier from 0.75 to 1.6
Updated damage fall-off curve so that damage drops to 90% at the edge of the 30cm inner radius, with damage falling off linearly from that point to 0 at the outer edge of the blast radius
Dev Note: We felt our buff of the CL-40 in 4.0 was too much and made the weapon very oppressive in certain combos or when stacked. We’ve now dialed the damage back to a level closer to what we had before 4.0, while retaining the increased size of the max damage inner radius. To prevent the weapon from returning to a time where it took 100% accuracy to take down a Heavy, we’ve given it one additional ammo. As always, we’ll continue to monitor the impacts of this change and adjust further if needed 
Pike-556
Decreased damage from 59 to 52
Dev Note: On reviewing data it’s become apparent that the Pike was fairly overturned in our 4.0 release and this adjustment is intended to move it to a more reasonable place. We suspect it may still be too effective in too many different use cases, so we’ll continue to review the impact of this change and adjust in later patches if we feel more balancing is needed. 
V9S
Decreased fire rate from 430 RPM to 360 RPM
Increased damage from 37 to 40
Dev Note: These changes have been made to prevent various methods where players could ensure they got the effective maximum fire rate from the weapon through use of specific binds, causing it to be highly effective compared to its intended baseline. The damage increase has been applied to offset some of the ‘effective DPS’ the weapon lost with the decreased fire rate. Overall, the effectiveness of the weapon for regular players should not be massively different
Content and Bug Fixes 
Animation 
Fixed an issue where the Dagger’s charged up secondary attack would not play the correct animation in third-person
Fixed an animation issue caused when inspecting liftable objects while certain weapon inspect animations were equipped
Fixed a bug that could cause third-person run animations to play at high speeds
Audio 
Fixed an issue that could cause sound from emotes to not play in the game
Characters 
Made it possible to polish the Grit & Glory skin when using weapon inspect
Contracts
Fixed some issues where gameplay events that give progress on various Contracts could either add extra scoring events or miss some, due to categorizing them as the wrong event, for example back-stabs with the Dagger counting as headshots  
Controller
Fixed an issue where controller aim assistance could sometimes lock on to the location where a player had previously died
Fixed aim assistance regression due to unsupported third-party software
Crashes & Errors
Fixed a crash bug that could be caused by a problem with texture arrays
 
Fixed an issue that could sometimes cause players to get the TFGE0000 connection error
Gadgets
Healing Beam
Added some physics-based ‘wiggle’ to the Healing Beam’s hose
Stun Gun
Players hit by the Stun Gun will now see directional hit arrows, showing the direction of the incoming shot
Game Modes
Ranked Tournament
Team colors will now be consistent throughout a tournament for teams you have seen in previous rounds. For example, if you progress with the purple team, they will be purple in the next round
Tutorial
Fixed an issue where bullet dispersion could occasionally become broken during the tutorial
World Tour
Team colors will now be consistent throughout a tournament for teams you have seen in previous rounds. For example, if you progress with the purple team, they will be purple in the next round
Private Matches
Added a second Spectator slot.
Liftables
Fixed a bug where liftables would sometimes be immediately dropped after picking them up
Maps 
Fortune Stadium
Fixed some missing collision on one of the ISEULT buildings
Made various improvements and fixes to destruction on Fortune Stadium
Various lighting tweaks made to billboards in Fortune Stadium
Added ‘ad jingles’ for HOLTOW in HOLTOW’s areas of Fortune Stadium 
Seoul, Monaco, Skyway Stadium & SYS$HORIZON
Night settings have been reworked for better visibility in certain areas
Performance
Fixed a bug that could cause the client to stutter whenever they took damage from an enemy
Security and Anti-cheat
Added new detection rules
Tweaked some of the current heuristics for higher accuracy
Specializations
Winch Claw
 
Fixed an issue where Winch Claw activation would not be blocked when the player was under the Glitch effect
Fixed an issue where activating the Winch Claw wouldn’t disable the Vanishing Bomb’s cloaking effect 
UI
Fixed an issue where the Cashout Station symbol turned white when the player picks up the Cashbox
Fixed an issue where the Sponsor progression reward tile could show the wrong progress on the progress bar
Fixed an issue in the post-match reward screens where the wrong amount of Fans earned could be shown
Adjusted the post-match reward screen buttons to make sure players don’t accidentally miss reward, XP and Fan updates by returning to the main menu by mistake
Updated the ordering of tracked Contracts in the scoreboard, to make it easier to read
Fixed bug where the game mode name wasn't shown in the matchmaking widget
Fixed an issue that could sometimes cause a player to see ‘kill’ hit indicators on the crosshair when they were actually only getting an assist
Fixed an issue where the party widget on the HUD would not show when a teammate was talking
Fixed bug where the squad respawn timer in the scoreboard could be shown on the wrong team
Fixed rounded corners on various game mode tiles on the main menu
Weapons
MGL32
Fixed an issue where the MGL32’s reload time was incorrect in the UI
R.357
Fixed an issue where, when using the Sticky Situation skin and a sight, the sight picture could become broken and the player would look into their hands
Recurve Bow
Fixed an issue that could cause the Recurve Bow to do a min damage of 68 rather than 60 
 
SH1900
Fixed an issue where the SH1900 stats where shown incorrectly in the UI




 












Oscar Lundberg


















































Previous


Previous


Update 4.3.0










Next


Next


World Tour: Friends & Family


















































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































