../../PathNotes/















Update 3.8.0 — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Update 3.8.0










Aug 7




Written By 
Dusty Gustafsson










 




2024.08.07
All that glitters is not gold.. Sometimes it’s Emerald!
It’s time to ask the age-old question, Contestants - CAN YOU REACH THE FINALS?
Today we’re finally unlocking THE FINALS inside the World Tour for all players who have reached a World Tour Badge Tier of Gold 1! Here you’ll be able to continue your badge progression past Gold and into Emerald, with unique rewards unlocking for each tier you achieve. In THE FINALS you only earn win points for winning an entire World Tour Tournament - so this truly is a challenge for our most seasoned contestants to show off their dedication.
We’re also heading to the next stop on the World Tour, the DISSUN Challenge. For this one, we’re updating the rules a bit by reintroducing cash loss on team wipe at 10% of total team cash. Make sure to play the DISSUN Challenge, and all of THE FINALS, with a friend or two because with this update we’re also introducing bonus Battle Pass XP when playing in a party! 
UPDATE FOR CLARITY: For those who have already reached Gold 1 in the World Tour, please note that you have THE FINALS tile unlocked and the normal World Tour now appears locked. Have no fear, you will still be able to play with your friends and progress along your Emerald badges, regardless of the badge level of your party members. We realize, now that it is live, that this was a confusing way to present this change and we’ll work on a fix to make it more clear. Regardless of your badge level (Bronze, Silver, Gold, or Emerald), you are all still playing World Tour. 








When it comes to bug-fixes we have another fix for the infinite loading screen, fixed the issue which caused the very bright contestant selection screen and we solved the unclimbable stairs on Kyoto!
Full list of changes below:
Balance Changes
Game Modes
World Tour
Teams now lose 10% of their cash total on team wipe
Dev Note: The rule changes we tested during the VOLPE Championship seem to have had positive results both with the community and in the analytics data we’ve been looking at. For our next World Tour stop, the DISSUN Challenge, we’ll keep testing this rule set, but with team wipe penalties reintroduced at 10%. This will allow us to continue to monitor how these changes impact the game. Huge thanks to everyone who provided feedback and impressions over the past two weeks! 
Increased the number of Win Points earned for reaching the second round of a tournament from 5 to 7
Increased the number of Win Points earned for reaching the final of a tournament from 12 to 16
Increased the number of Win Points earned for winning a tournament from 20 to 26
Dev Note: Win Points are not accumulative. They are awarded based on where you finished in a tournament, meaning that if you win a tournament, you earn 26 points in total. 
Content and Bug Fixes 
Animation 
Fixed issue where charged weapons would stay charged visually for spectators at times
Characters
Allowing watches to show properly when paired with the Alien upper body cosmetic
Gadgets
Fixed an issue where goo would not stick to surfaces as intended
Game Modes
“THE FINALS” tile is now live in World Tour. Contestants who achieved Gold 1 can participate in THE FINALS to progress through the Emerald Rank where only tournament wins reward win points
Respawn tokens should now show the proper amount
The elimination sequence is now showing again before going to a new match 
Fixes for weather being applied wrong in the squad intro sequence
Fixed lights being too bright during team introductions in some instances
Maps
Kyoto 
Tweaked Respawn points to be more evenly spread across the entire map 
Fixed staircase that was difficult to traverse
Progression
Added bonus XP while playing in a party, players in a party of 2 will earn +7,5% XP and players in a party of 3 or more will earn +10% XP towards their Battle Pass
Specializations
The Evasive Dash specialization will now open doors automatically when dashing into them
Stability
Crash fixes
Fixed another issue which could cause an infinite loading screen
Dev Note: This issue has been difficult to solve, so please make sure to let us know on our Discord Server if you still experience it after this update!
Fixed a connection issue where users who crashed in the lobby could be marked as abandoned which could lead to faulty suspensions
Added the ability for players who leave a ranked game to reconnect to their current game while suspended from matchmaking
UI 
Added the ability to see the leaderboard for each World Tour stop
Removed showing faulty cash amount gained for friendly kills
Fixed so the infinite damage symbol shows when falling off a ledge or other scenarios 
Fixed tracking being allowed on locked quests
Hide respawn coins in the scoreboard for Terminal Attack
Fix for unintended behavior of the dropdown menu in Private Matches
Fixed issue with the camera sniper skin playing unintentional sound effects while equipped
Fixed the issue which caused contestants outside of the top 500 on the leaderboards to appear as “unranked”




 












Dusty Gustafsson


















































Previous


Previous


Hotfix 3.8.1










Next


Next


Update 3.7.0


















































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































