../../PathNotes/















Update 2.8.0 — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Update 2.8.0










May 16




Written By 
Dusty Gustafsson










 




2024.05.15
Welcome to Update 2.8.0 and an all-new community event! 








We are hosting a community event in honor of our last week of Terminal Attack! If everyone in the community can pull together to achieve a total of 7 MILLION eliminations in TA this week, everyone who contributed will earn a sweet prize: canvas shoes to add to your cute-mmunity look!
 We’ll also host a
 
leaderboard
 for the event so you can see the top contributors! As always, we’ll give out prizes 
on Discord
 during the event.
This update focused on many quality-of-life changes and improvements. Most notably, we have made changes to melee weapons, hoping to improve how they feel to play with in the game. We’ll need your feedback on these changes!
Let’s get into the nitty-gritty:
Content and Bug Fixes 
Animation
Fixed an issue where hand gesture animations were overriding the  Mesh Shield animations, resulting in broken character poses
Fixed an issue where throwing animations would not play while inspecting weapons
Added an intro animation in terminal attack to improve the round countdown
Audio
Player Voice lines will now only play for teammates and not opposing players 
Gadgets 
Anti-gravity Cube
We made the cube heavier so that it doesn’t get pushed as easily when hit by other objects 
Fixed a bug where objects would lift much faster than intended when they were attached together
This also prevents an exploit in which the cube could be carried upwards together with the objects it’s lifting, causing entire structures to traverse upwards into the sky endlessly
Dome Shield 
Fixed an issue where it was not able to be glitched when the center was occluded
Gameplay
A new carriable object has been added to the Arena: Glitch Barrels
Dev note: Glitch barrels are carriable objects. Pick them up and throw them to apply their effect in an area, or shoot them to detonate them from afar. The Glitch barrels apply the same effect as Glitch Grenades, removing the target's ability to use their Gadgets and Specializations.
Fixed an issue where players were able to start opening a Vault during the beginning of an emote
Fixed an issue where the Cashbox was incorrectly dropped far away from the player if it clipped through the map border
Interactions such as using a zipline, pressing elevator buttons, and interacting with a revive statue should now be more responsive, especially on console/gamepad 
Improved visibility of barrels in dark and monochrome areas
Fixed a bug with sliding where auto-sprinting players could get stuck between the crouch and sprint state 
Fixed a bug that allowed players to deal damage to their teammates
Fixed an issue where players would get stuck in goo when running up to it 
Dev note: This will only fix the issue outside of moving platforms. We know that goo sometimes behaves strangely on moving platforms and are looking into it for a later patch. 
Maps
All Maps 
Rooftop reflections have been improved 
SYS$HORIZON 
Tweaked the zipline at the Museum entrance so you exit earlier automatically instead of it taking you all the way to the ceiling
Monaco 
Power Shift: Adjusted spawns to balance out the distances to the platform and to reduce how often you have to run after the platform when defending
Modes
Terminal Attack 
Added a distinct sound change on the Terminal when there is only 15 seconds left to stop the decryption
The icon for the terminal will no longer appear in the center of the screen when decryption starts
Due to a known issue that could not be resolved in time, players can only swap weapons and gadgets between rounds and not in spectator mode after elimination
UI
Ping wheel additions and changes
Added new ping messages “Breach here” and “Hold this Position”
To make room for the two new pings “Hype” and “Danger” have been moved/removed. Hype is added to the expression wheel, replacing “Need Help.” “Danger” is removed from the wheel but still accessible via double-tapping the ping button on any target
Support/Social pings are now located at the bottom of the wheel, while tactical options are on the top half
“Going here”, “Defending here” and “Attacking here” in the Ping wheel are now called “Go here”, “Defend here”, and “Attack here”  to make it clearer that they are requests to your team, and consistent with the character voice lines
Updated several event log messages related to pinging game mode relevant objects to communicate the context more clearly
Dev Note: There are still some events missing their proper messages. They will be added in the future!
When holding the ping wheel on your own ping now we only show the remove option to make it clear that you pinged an existing ping
Fixed an issue that sometimes made it impossible to cancel the ping wheel 
Fixed UI elements being drawn on top of the in-game menu in Terminal Attack 
Flipped background opacity for dead/alive players in the scoreboard
Updated contestant icons
Fixed an issue in frontend where clicking buttons multiple times in short succession would cause them not to register
Updated required round completion on a terminal attack contract from 10 to the intended 14
Changed the key bind for “Hide UI” from F12 to F10 
Changed the order of tiles for Quickplay
Updated the lighting on Player Cards 
Specializations 
Charge'N'Slam
Can now clear higher obstacles when activated on the ground to reduce instances where players get stuck on geometry
Weapons 
Dagger
Improved backstab validation 
Dev Note: We've received a lot of feedback about Backstabs not feeling as good. Hopefully, we've rectified that issue in this patch. The only way to tell is to let you try it and then gather your feedback! 
Fixed so that the aim assist for backstabs now synchronizes with the swing, rather than triggering at the start of the charge-up.
All Melee Weapons 
Improved hit validation for all melee weapons
There is now a setting for turning melee aim assist on/off in the “Gameplay” section
The aim assist and lunge range are slightly more generous for quick melee
We have changed the way sprinting gets blocked when attacking with melee weapons and using quick melee, so that sprint is only blocked through parts of a swing, instead of the whole duration of the attack. This is tweaked on a weapon-to-weapon basis
The sprint toggle no longer gets canceled by melee attacks, so players don’t have to re-toggle spam to efficiently chase their target while attacking
Riot Shield 
The shield can now be raised more quickly after performing an attack
SR-84
Is now correctly marked as a Marksman Rifle instead of a Melee Weapon in the menus
Security
Updates and improvements 
Known Issues
Heads up! There is an issue with all gamepad presets (except for “Modifier Button Equipping”) which causes players to equip weapons when pressing the “Interact and Equip Weapon” button, which is not intended. This will be resolved in the next patch, but until then, please go into the controller settings and fix it by clearing the “Weapon” bind. Sorry for the inconvenience!




 












Dusty Gustafsson


















































Previous


Previous


Update 2.9.0










Next


Next


Update 2.7.0 


















































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































