../../PathNotes/















Update 3.2.0  — THE FINALS












































































































































0

















        Skip to Content
      






















































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu
























































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL














































































Open Menu


Close Menu














































NEWS






GAMEMODES






SUPPORT






MERCH






EMBARK PORTAL










































































































Update 3.2.0 










Jun 26




Written By 
Dusty Gustafsson










 




2024.06.26
Check out the store update for this week with the Hazard Duty set : 








Also, we have a few fixes and tweaks to share below. Most notably, you can now reconnect in Private Matches if you are disconnected during the match! Also, we’ve had to temporarily remove Solo Bank It from Private Matches in order to fix an issue in the mode. It will be back soon.  
Today is the last day of the 
ENGIMO Open
 and tomorrow, we are proud to announce the 
OSPUZE Expo
! In this leg of the World Tour, things will get fizzy and explosive in Monaco, Las Vegas, and Kyoto! The rules will be Standard Cashout and keep an eye out for some contracts over the weekends! 
Get ready to Pop. Pour. Perform! 
Here’s the change list for this update: 
Content and Bug Fixes 
Animation 
Tweaked inspect animations for carriables so that you can start a consecutive inspect quicker
Fixed an issue where the weapon would be visible while getting revived
Fixed an issue where the players would get stuck in the sword lunge animation
Fixed a bug where players could die without spawning a statue if a teammate immediately started to revive
Gadgets
Grapple Hook 
Can no longer attach to surfaces that are out of bounds
Dome Shield 
Fixed an issue where the Dome Shield would skip on or bounce off of water surfaces 
Game Modes
Private Matches
Disconnected players can now reconnect
Fixed an issue that would cause the game to lock players in a state of accepting an invite 
Solo Bank It temporarily removed due to a bug 
Cashout 
Fixed an issue where the Cashbox icon would not re-appear after fading away for the first time when in the possession of another team
Terminal Attack
Fixed a bug that caused extraction location names to not be visible at the start of a round
Fixed motion blur being incorrectly forced during the warm-up phase
Fixed an issue where key insertion failed after the hold interaction was complete 
Improved the penalty system for delivering sanctions to players who leave the match early
Power Shift 
Fixed a bug that made it possible to overtake the platform after the round had ended
Performance
Added improvements on cosmetics and distance fields to save memory 
Specializations
Winch Claw 
Fixed an issue where players lunging with the Sword could get stuck in a captured state when hit with the Winch Claw 
UI 
Fixed an issue that caused the spectator camera vignette to play in the drafting screen in Terminal Attack
Fixed the Battle Pass background to prevent it from being cleared when entering the Career screen 
Changed the controller input for editing the Player Card to avoid canceling matchmaking
Fixed an issue that caused player score to be cleared for reconnected players 
Disconnected players will be hidden in certain squad intro scenes
Weapons
Dagger
Fixed an issue where the Dagger’s secondary backstab attack could hit multiple players at once, which was unintended
Dev note: Melee weapons' ability to hit multiple targets was a new addition with unintended consequences. Now, we've refined it so that heavy-hitting attacks intended for single targets can't be used to hit multiple people.
Sledgehammer 
Fixed an issue where the Sledgehammer’s secondary overhead swing attack could hit multiple players at once, which was unintended
SR-84
Fixed an issue where the scope glint effect would not be shown at distances over 150m
Maps
Kyoto
Tweaked destruction behavior to better support prolonged combat and traversal by making buildings collapse more slowly, break into larger chunks, and debris settle faster
Dev Note:  We felt that Kyoto buildings were a bit too brittle, so we tweaked their destruction behavior to be more sturdy. We will continue to monitor this and apply further changes where necessary.
Monaco
Changed the collision of the see-through curtains so that all projectiles and thrown objects pass through them
Security
Further enhancements to our Aimbot detection system for faster reaction time




 












Dusty Gustafsson


















































Previous


Previous


Update 3.2.2










Next


Next


Update 3.1.0


















































































































































































































Privacy Policy

  
Cookie Policy

  
Content Creators

  
Security

  
User Terms

  
Cookie Settings






THE FINALS © 2022-2024 Embark Studios AB. THE FINALS and EMBARK trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Embark Studios AB. NEXON trademark and logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NXC Corporation. © 2024 Valve Corporation. Steam and the Steam logo are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Valve Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. © 2024 Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Unreal, Unreal Engine and their respective logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Epic Games, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and elsewhere. All other trademarks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



















































